--- 
layout: post
typo_id: 131
title: "Mena Trott asks: Are Productive Online Conversations Possible?"
---
In Mena Trott's "apologetic follow-up":http://www.sixapart.com/about/corner/2005/12/words_you_shoul.html
to her "implosion":http://www.sixapart.com/about/corner/2005/12/mena_trott_impl.html at Les Blogs ("video here":http://dltq.org/media/menavsben.mov) she poses a question to the blogosphere:

bq. Is it possible to have the sort of productive face-to-face connection or conversation that Ben M. and I had offline in an online world? And what can we, as bloggers, do to facilitate that?

Here's my take, Mena:

*Yes*, it is possible to have deep, exciting, terrifying, enlightening, and (most of all) productive conversations online. I've had many.

How do bloggers facilitate this? I'm sure not we all can: to facilitate the spread of productive conversation, bloggers must lead by example. This, in my mind, requires four things:

# Being able to respecfully, productively communicate *in person*
# *Believing* that we can conduct a similarly productive repore on the intraweb
# Taking care and caution to stip the non-productive bits from your online communication (this post was a great excersize of item #3), and lastly
# Taking even *greater* care when reponding to criticism, or to ideas or opinions you disagree with.

I, for a start, pledge to behave reasonably and productively in all off- and on-line discussion regarding this issue. I believe that I can. *I believe we all can.*

Thoughts, anyone?
